.Dd August 10 2019
.Dt SSH-HKAUDIT 1
.nh
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ssh-hkaudit
.Nd ssh known_host audit utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Bk -words
.Nm
.Op Fl 46
.Op Fl n
.Ar known-host-file
.Ar host
.Op Ar port
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
connects using libssh2 to the given
.Ar host
and optional
.Ar port
and verifies the SSH known hosts using the given
.Ar known-host-file .
The connection is shutdown before authentication. On OpenBSD,
.Nm
is only allowed minimal access to the system and even less once the
socket is established.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl 4
force the use of IPv4. The default is to use
.Dv AF_UNSPEC .
.It Fl 6
force the use of IPv6.
.It Fl n
Treat the
.Ar host
as a numeric address.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Pp
In particular,
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv 0
a host key was verified. Nothing should be printed to standard output.
.It Dv 1
is a generic error and likely indicates some low level problem.
.It Dv 7
no socket connection could be established with the
.Ar host .
.It Dv 10
there was a host key mismatch; text will be printed to standard output.
.It Dv 11
the host key was not found in the
.Ar known-host-file .
Text will be printed to standard output.
.It Dv 12
Something prevented the check from being made. Text to standard output.
.It Dv 13
unknown error from
.Xr libssh2_knownhost_check 3 ,
check the documentation for changes? Text to standard output.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
No news is good news, assuming the public keys for the local system
are in the
.Pa known_hosts
file for the user running the command:
.Pp
.Dl $ Ic ssh-hkaudit ~/.ssh/known_hosts localhost 22
.Dl $ Ic echo $?
.Dl 0
.Dl $ Ic ./ssh-hkaudit /dev/null localhost \&; echo $?
.Dl not found
.Dl 11
.Pp
.Nm
will leave particular logs as it disconnects prior to authentication.
.Pp
.Dl ... Connection from ::1 port 3973 on ::1 port 22 rdomain "0"
.Dl ... Received disconnect from ::1 port 3973:11: shutdown [preauth]
.Dl ... Disconnected from ::1 port 3973 [preauth]
.Pp
An alternative method would be to use
.Xr ssh-keyscan 1
to collect known hosts information and then compare what that found with
the existing records; this may be more compatbile with servers that
libssh2 cannot negotiate a connection with:
.Pp
.Dl ... Unable to negotiate with ...: no matching MAC found.
.Pp
This is due to an OpenSSH 8.0 server offering only
.Pp
.Dl MACs hmac-sha2-512-etm@openssh.com,hmac-sha2-256-etm@openssh.com
.Pp
which is less compatible but does cut done on brute force attempts
looking for weak passwords. I eventually put that SSH daemon on a
custom port to cut down on the log spam even more.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr irulan 1 ,
.Xr ssh-keyscan 1
.Pp
.Em https://github.com/thrig/web_irulan
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Jeremy Mates
.Sh CAVEATS
This tool will not scale well to large number of hosts. Probably a
different tool should be written or an existing parallel SSH
implementation used if there are large numbers of hosts to audit.
